### CSCI-UA.480-051: Parallel Computing

#### Prof. Mohamed Zahran, Spring 2022

*CODING LANGUAGE IS JAVA/...*

# Questions

whats the diff between a core and a thread and a cpu and a chip?

concurrent: several things happening in the same general time space. your operating system is concurrent.

parallel: several of the same thing happening together as a batch, being processed more than one at a time. your video card is parallel

async: i'll get back to you when it's ready. node and most network hook things are async.

async programming seems to be a buzz nowadays, what is the difference between async and parallel and when would one be used over the other? in your opinion is one methed objectively better than the other?

# The Story of Parallel Computing

moore's law: the number of transisters doubles every month

dennard scaling: 

Moore's law stopped working around 2002 due to temperature & power limitations. The soln? Build multiple cores and scale horizontally.

Three way to speed up computing:
- increasing # of transistors
- increasing frequency
- increasing number of threads

The tread now of multiple cores and lower freq  
Why is this the trend? Well...
- can increase speed w/o sacraficing power
- hide memory latency???
- easier to make

Sequential code is dying why? b/c new computers have slower cores when working by themselves.

Can any sequential code in theory be turned into parallel code? No. There are some algos that are inherntly sequential.

Modern chips have _performance_ and _efficiancy_ cores

Parallel coding can scale to multiple computers (called a cluster computer)

Which industries benefit from parallel? Gaming, medicine, data science. Anything with a lot of computing required.

Attempts to make parallel easier have all failed b/c

# How and when to parallelize code

# Caches
